Added Advanced Software Management subsection and Services subsection  to Software section in Device Management Library chapter in Reference guide (#370)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/reference/device-management-library-bundle/software.md

5. Set operation status to SUCCESSFUL <br>
   `503,c8y_SoftwareUpdate`

### Advanced Software Management

In this approach software packages became separate entities and are represented as the device managed object child
additions. To facilitate the management of them, the Advanced Software Management
default [microservice](https://cumulocity.com/guides/concepts/applications/#microservices)
was introduced.

An example managed object for a device that supports advanced software management and contain a single software package:

```json
{
  "owner": "service_advanced-software-mgmt",
  "childAdditions": {
    "references": [
      {
        "managedObject": {
          "name": "Software Name",
          "self": "http://t789864.latest.stage.c8y.io/inventory/managedObjects/123",
          "id": "123"
        },
        "self": "http://t789864.latest.stage.c8y.io/inventory/managedObjects/321/childAdditions/123"
      }
    ],
    "name": "Device Name",
    "self": "http://t789864.latest.stage.c8y.io/inventory/managedObjects/127947",
    "id": "321",
    "c8y_IsDevice": {},
    "c8y_SupportedOperations": [
      "c8y_SoftwareList"
    ],
    "c8y_SupportedSoftwareTypes": {}
  }
}

> ```

Author: Done.

static templates.

Querying the software packages:

```http
GET /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
{
  "softwareList": [
    {
      "name": "software_a",
      "version": "3.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
      "softwareType": "type A"
    },
    {
      "name": "software_b",
      "version": "2.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
      "softwareType": "type B"
    }
  ],
  "statistics": {
    "currentPage": 1,
    "pageSize": 5
  },
  "self": ...,
  "next": ...
}
```

| Query paramater | Mandatory | Details |
| --------------- | --------- | ------- |
| deviceId        | Yes       | ID of the device |
| name            | No        | Filter parameter for the software name |
| version         | No        | Filter parameter for the software version |
| type            | No        | Filter parameter for the software type |
| pageSize        | No        | The number of items on the page of the paginated result, between 1 and 2000 |
| currentPage     | No        | The current page of the paginated result |

> | withTotalPages  | No | When set to `true`, the returned result will contain the total number of the pages in the statistics object |

Author: 1) How do you know, that this documentation is for a device integrator? It is called 'Reference guide' and described as 'Detailed technical specifications of the programming interfaces of Cumulocity IoT as a reference for software developers'.

2) If I would be a device integrator, i would want to check what software packages are present in the platform, to know what to add or what to remove.

Setting software packages:

```http
POST /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
    "softwareType": "type A"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
    "softwareType": "type B"
  }
]

> ```

Author: Done.

> You can also use the SmartREST static template 140 instead. It takes a list of software packages of dynamic length,

Author: Done.

where each package is represented by its name, version, software type and URL:

`140,software_a,3.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b`

> Adding software packages:

Author: Done.

```http
PUT /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
    "softwareType": "type A"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
    "softwareType": "type B"
  }
]
```

> You can also use the SmartREST static template 141 instead. Similarly, it takes a list of software packages of dynamic

Author: Done.

length, where each package is represented by its name, version, software type and URL:

`141,software_a,3.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b`

> Removing software packages by name and version using Advanced Software Management microservice:

Author: Done.

```http
DELETE /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0"
  }
]
```

You can also use the SmartREST static template 142 instead.

> It takes a list of software packages of dynamic length, where each package is represented by its name and version, as URL and software type are not used to identify a package:

Author: Done.

`142,software_a,3.0.0,software_b,2.0.0`

#### Changing installed software

Similarly, in the Advanced Software Management approach updating software packages requires sending to the device one of
the operations: `c8y_SoftwareUpdate` or `c8y_SoftwareList`, depending on which are specified
in `c8y_SupportedOperations` fragment. The only difference is that now software type property is required for software
packages.

> ##### Software list

Author: But isn't there a rule that if a device supports ASM it must have software type passed in the operation?

The service can have measurements, alarms and events assigned.

### Installed software

A device announces its current status of installed software to the platform by adding the `c8y_SoftwareList` fragment to its device managed object.
This fragment is an array that contains all installed software packages as individual objects with a name, version, URL and software type property.
Both the URL and the software type are optional. The name and the version are required to identify the software package.

```http
PUT /inventory/managedObjects/<deviceId>
```

```json
{
  "c8y_SoftwareList": [
    {
      "name": "software_a",
      "version": "3.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
      "softwareType": "type A"
    },
    {
      "name": "software_b",
      "version": "2.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
      "softwareType": "type B"
    }
  ]
}
```

| Field | Mandatory | Details |
|----|----|----|
| name | Yes | The name of the software|
| version | Yes | A version identifier of the software|
| url | No | A URL pointing to the location where the software file was obtained from|

> | softwareType | No | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Author: The suggested version is definitely more confusing. It right away raises questions: what kind of type?, what are possible types? are they needed for something else than grouping? etc. But there are no types, only arbitrary strings.

> | softwareType | No | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Reviewer: Well technically all fields are arbitrary strings for organizing software artifacts :D
I think the suggested description is more concrete.

> | softwareType | No | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Author: :) Good point, but name, version and url are not really arbitrary, they depend on the software package. They are precisely specified, for example: what is the version of JDK you are using? You instantly know. But what is its type? 

Recently I was thinking that software type here is rather something more like a tag than a type. Other thing is that explaining things using the same words is useless, e.g. "software type - type of the software".

> | softwareType | No | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Author: Or in other words - for the software package author they are arbitrary strings, but for the user of cumulocity platform they are definitely not.

> | softwareType | No | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Author: Also noticed now that in the SmartREST static templates, you Georgi, put software type before url.

`116,software_a,3.0.0,http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,http://example.com/software_b`

> ### Advanced Software Management Microservice

Reviewer 2: Microservice > microservice

Reviewer 3: done

       }
   ],
   "statistics": {
     "currentPage": 1,
     "pageSize": 5
   },
   "self": ...,
   "next": ...
}
```

| Query paramater | Mandatory | Details |
| --------------- | --------- | ------- |
| deviceId        | Yes       | ID of the device |
| name            | No        | Filter parameter for the software name |
| version         | No        | Filter parameter for the software version |
| type            | No        | Filter parameter for the software type |
| pageSize        | No        | The number of items on the page of the paginated result, between 1 and 2000 |
| currentPage     | No        | The current page of the paginated result |
| withTotalPages  | No | When set to `true`, the returned result will contain the total number of the pages in the statistics object |

Setting software packages with ASM:

```http
POST /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
    "softwareType": "type A"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
    "softwareType": "type B"
  }
]
```

> Alternatively SmartREST static template 140 can be used.

Reviewer 2: Alternatively SmartREST static template 140 can be used. > Alternatively, you can use the SmartREST static template 140.
Similar below a couple of times. Perhaps we can find a better wording instead of 3 times "Alternatively"?

Reviewer 3: went with "You can also use the SmartREST static template 140 instead."

It takes a list of software packages of dynamic length, where each package is represented by its name, version, software type and URL:

`140,software_a,3.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b`

Adding software packages with ASM:

```http
PUT /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
    "softwareType": "type A"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0",
    "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
    "softwareType": "type B"
  }
]
```

> Alternatively SmartREST static template 141 can be used.

Reviewer 2: see above

Reviewer 3: done

> Similarly, it takes a list of software packages dynamic length, where each package is represented by its name, version, software type and URL:

Reviewer 2: software packages dynamic length > software packages of dynamic length

Reviewer 3: oh, thought i had caught this one :) done

`141,software_a,3.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b`

Removing software packages by name and version with ASM:

```http
DELETE /service/advanced-software-mgmt/software?deviceId=<deviceId>
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "software_a",
    "version": "3.0.0"
  },
  {
    "name": "software_b",
    "version": "2.0.0"
  }
]
```

> Alternatively SmartREST static template 142 can be used.

Reviewer 2: see above

Reviewer 3: done

The 528 static response template is available for dealing with software update operations:

1. Receive ```c8y_SoftwareUpdate``` operation <br>
   `528,deviceSerial,software_a,4.0.0,http://example.com/software_a,install,software_b,3.0.0,http://example.com/software_b,delete`
2. Set operation status to EXECUTING <br>
   `501,c8y_SoftwareUpdate`
3. Uninstall and install software
4. Update device’s software list in inventory <br>
   `116,software_a,3.0.0,http://example.com/software_a`
5. Set operation status to SUCCESSFUL <br>
   `503,c8y_SoftwareUpdate`

> ### Advanced Software Management microservice

Reviewer 3: This was Heading level 2 ("##") before, was that intended?
If so, we need to create another file. I can do that, just let me know

To facilitate the management of large list of software packages, the Advanced Software Management default [microservice](https://cumulocity.com/guides/concepts/applications/#microservices) was introduced.
It represents software packages as managed object child additions, thus making them separate entities which can be added, removed, filtered or paginated.

> 

Reviewer 4: We don't need to document all software related endpoints here. This section should cover the same use cases as the legacy software management above plus adding to installed software, removing from installed software and we need to explain how to declare a device as advanced software device. Of course all of these need to be explained on REST basis with parameter descriptions and also include SR examples

Author: Changed, however kept description of the endpoint for getting device software, as I think it is relevant.

  `116,software_a,3.0.0,http://example.com/software_a`
5. Set operation status to SUCCESSFUL <br>
  `503,c8y_SoftwareUpdate`

### Services

Software services running on a device are modeled as child additions with `c8y_Service` type.

The **Device details** page shows a **Services** tab for devices that have at least one software service.
The service can have measurements, alarms and events assigned.

Querying services:

```http
GET /inventory/managedObjects/<deviceId>/childAdditions?query=type eq 'c8y_Service' and name eq '*<serviceName>*'
```

```json
{
  "references": [
    {
      "name": "<serviceName>",
      "id": "123",
      "type": "c8y_Service",
      "serviceType": "systemd",
      "status": "up",
      ...
    }
  ],
  "statistics": {
    "currentPage": 1,
    "pageSize": 5
  },
  "self": ...,
  "next": ...
}
```

Adding a service:

```http
POST /inventory/managedObjects/<deviceId>/childAdditions

Content-Type: "application/vnd.com.nsn.cumulocity.managedObject+json"
```

```json
{
  "name": "<serviceName>",
  "id": "123",
  "type": "c8y_Service",
  "serviceType": "systemd",
  "status": "up",
  ...
}
```

> Updating service:

Reviewer 2: Updating service > Updating a service

Reviewer 3: done

```http
PUT /inventory/managedObjects/<managedObjectId>

Content-Type: "application/vnd.com.nsn.cumulocity.managedObject+json"
```

```json
{
  "name": "<serviceName>",
  "id": "123",
  "type": "c8y_Service",
  "serviceType": "systemd",
  "status": "up",
  ...
}
```

Removing a service:

```http
DELETE /inventory/managedObjects/<managedObjectId>
```

> For devices supporting the Advanced Software Management feature, a new static SmartREST 2.0 template is available.

Reviewer 2: a new static SmartREST 2.0 template is available > I would remove the "new" as this may not be relevant after a while.

Reviewer 3: done

   `142,software_c,5.0.0,software_d,6.0.0`
5. Add to the inventory installed software packages <br>
   `141,software_a,3.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,software_b,2.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b`
6. Set operation status to SUCCESSFUL <br>
   `503,c8y_SoftwareList`

##### Software update

The `c8y_SoftwareUpdate` operation contains a partial list and each list element contains an additional instruction
whether the package should be installed or uninstalled.

```json
{
  "c8y_SoftwareUpdate": [
    {
      "name": "software_a",
      "version": "4.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_a",
      "softwareType": "type A",
      "action": "install"
    },
    {
      "name": "software_b",
      "version": "3.0.0",
      "url": "http://example.com/software_b",
      "softwareType": "type B"
      "action": "delete"
    }
  ]
}
```

| Field | DataType | Mandatory | Details |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
|name |string |Yes |Name of the software|
|version |string | Yes | A version identifier of the software|
|url |string |Yes |A URL pointing to the location where the software file should be downloaded from|

> | softwareType | string| Yes | An arbitrary string for organizing software artifacts|

Author: Replied before.

> The 528 static response template is available for dealing with software update operations:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The 529 static response template is available for dealing with software update operations for devices that support Advanced Software Management:
```

Author: There is no static template 529.

1. Receive ```c8y_SoftwareUpdate``` operation <br>

>    `528,deviceSerial,software_a,4.0.0,"type A",http://example.com/software_a,install,software_b,3.0.0,"type B",http://example.com/software_b,delete`

Author: Ok
